.TH DALITOOL 1 2008/09/12
.SH NAME
dalitool \- DataLink client for data stream inspection and server queries

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
dalitool [options] [host][:][port] [repeat]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdalitool\fP connects to a \fIDataLink\fR server and either queries
the server for information or collects selected data streams and prints
information about the packets received.  All received packets can
optionally be written to a single file.

Results of server information queries can either be printed as raw XML
as returned by the server or as formatted output.  If a repeat
interval is specified with an information query the query will be
repeated at the given interval in seconds.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Report program version and exit.

.IP "-h         "
Print program usage and exit.

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-p         "
Print details of received packets.  This flag can be used multiple
times ("-p -p" or "-pp") for more detail.

.IP "-d         "
Print the first 6 sample values for each received time-series packet,
implies at least one -p flag.

.IP "-D         "
Print all sample values for each received time-series packet, implies
at least one -p flag.

.IP "-m \fImatch\fR"
Specify a matching expression to send to the server.  This regular
expression is used to either limit the stream packets collected or the
streams or clients reported in information queries.  For packets this
expression is matched against the stream ID, nominally in the
form 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN/TYPE'.  For clients this expression is matched
against the client address (host:port) string and the client ID, a
successful match against either means the client will be included in
the results.  If the expression begins with an '@' character it is
assumed to be a file containing a list of expressions for matching.

.IP "-r \fIreject\fR"
Specify a rejecting expression to send to the server.  This regular
expression is used to limit the stream packets collected and is
logically opposite of the matching expression.  This expression is
matched against the stream ID, nominally in the
form 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN/TYPE'.  If the expression begins with an '@'
character it is assumed to be a file containing a list of expressions
for rejecting.

.IP "-k \fIinterval\fR"
Specify keepalive packet interval (in seconds) at which keepalive
packets are sent to the server.  Keepalive packets are only sent if
nothing is received within the interval.

.IP "-x \fIstatefile\fR"
During client shutdown the last received packet ID and packet creation
time will be saved in this file.  If this file exists upon startup the
information will be used to resume the data collection from the point
at which it was stopped.  In this way the client can be stopped and
started without data loss, assuming the data are still available on
the server.

.IP "-o \fIoutfile\fR"
If specified, all received packets will be appended to this file.  The
file is created if it does not exist.  A special mode for this option
is to send all received packets to standard output when the outfile is
specified as '-'.  In this case all diagnostic program output will be
redirected to standard error.

.IP "-i \fItype\fR"
Send an information request; the returned raw XML response is printed.
Supported information types are: STATUS, STREAMS and CONNECTIONS.  The
results of STREAMS and CONNNECTIONS queries can be limited to specific
streams or connections using the \fB-m\fP and \fB-r\fP options.
.PP
Formatted information requests can be made with these options:

.nf
-I   print server status and either exit or repeat at interval
-Q   print stream list and either exit or repeat at interval
-C   print connection list and either exit or repeat at interval
.fi

.IP "-f         "
Increase the level of detail printed for formatted INFO responses.
This flag can be used multiple times ("-f -f" or "-ff") for increased
levels.

.IP "\fI[host][:][port]\fR"
A required argument, specifies the address of the DataLink server in
host:port format.  Either the host, port or both can be omitted.  If
host is omitted then localhost is assumed, i.e. ':16000'
implies 'localhost:16000'.  If the port is omitted then 16000 is
assumed, i.e. 'localhost' implies 'localhost:16000'.  If only ':' is
specified 'localhost:16000' is assumed.

.IP "\fI[repeat]\fR"
A repeat interval in seconds for server information queries.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IP
The following would connect to a DataLink server at data.host.edu port
16000 and print details of all received packets.  Since no match or
reject patterns were specified the server will send all data.

.B >dalitool -p data.host.edu:16000

The '-m' and '-r' arguments can be used to limit the data packets, in
the following packets with stream IDs beginning with "US" are matched
and packets with stream IDs beginning with "US_DMGT" are rejected.
This would effectively select the US network data streams with the
exception of station DGMT.  Port 16000 will be assumed as none is
specified.

.B >dalitool -v -p -m '^US.*' -r '^US_DGMT.*' data.host.edu

.IP
The following requests and formats a list of current streams in the
server.

.B >dalitool -S data.host.edu

An information request can be continuously repeated by supplying a
repeat interval, for example to print the connection list every 5
seconds:

.B >dalitool -C data.host.edu 5

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
